[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
the great collapse for a second, h1s.
Let's just say we do something dumb and
we float our h1s.
Nope, that's actually gonna do okay.
And then, P,
>> Brian Holt: float: left.
>> Brian Holt: Do I have an over?
I have an overflow on this, that's why.
>> Brian Holt: And I have height, okay?
>> Brian Holt: I'm trying to get
something bad to happen in CSS and
then I have a height 0, padding bottom.
>> Brian Holt: Hm,
>> Brian Holt: Well I'll just talk
about it for a sec cuz I can't seem
to get it to do it real quick.
Anyway, so there's something that people
often refer to as the great collapse in
CSS, that when you start floating elements
inside of a parent div, the parent div,
when you try and style it, collapses.
It'll have no height.
So if you have a nice background color,
or something like that,
it's not styling correctly.
This is called the great collapse because
you're putting floated elements inside of
an element that is itself,
trying to figure out how tall it is.
And so with floats inside of a parent div,
what you need to
do on the parent div is you need to give
it some sort of way to reset itself.
You'll see a lot of times
something called clearfix.
Or people will put overflow: hidden
in weird places in the code.
That's to get that parent
div to reacquire its height.
All it needs to do is just reset itself.
So if you notice that you're using floats
and your parent div is collapsing,
throw something on like,
if you put overflow: hidden,
it'll adjust itself or look up clearfix.
If you search for clear fix,
it'll be the first thing that'll come up.
>> Speaker 2: A couple questions here.
One, you're just kind of
questioning what no wrap is and
understanding white-space and
how that works.
>> Brian Holt: Like the CSS properties?
Yeah so,
not CSS, but the browser does its
best to fit all of your text and
everything that it can on one line.
Sometimes you don't want it to wrap, so
you use something like white-space:
nowrap, I think is what it is, and
then even if you start going outside of
your div, it will not overflow your text.
In fact,
I think if we went back to this and
I said like blog-post-p and
I said whitespace: nowrap.
>> Brian Holt: I gotta remember.
It's not one of the most common ones.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
notice now I have a super long page,
because all the text
refused to wrap itself.
It's typically not a desirable thing,
right, but there are occasions like,
you have a head or something and
it's wrapping itself in a weird way.
So you can use whitespace: nowrap to
prevent this wrapping from happening.
>> Speaker 2: And
then they wanna know about the clearfix.
>> Brian Holt: Let's see.
I hadn't prepare a talk on it,
but let's clearfix.
This is the one that I typically use.
Nicholas Gallager, super smart guy.
So again, search for clearfix.
And what he does is, all right,
let's see if I,
>> Brian Holt: So
again, you have a CSS reset,
this clearfix is just like a utility class
that you can just throw on
things to fix itself, so
let's do,
>> Brian Holt: Let's just go
to open a new CodePen.
>> Brian Holt: See if
I can get it to do it.
So I'm gonna have div class=parent and
I'm gonna have .childx2,
this is the emit stuff, maybe not.
All right,
I guess it doesn't want to do emit for me.
Child,
>> Brian Holt: Let's see.
Div, div, div, okay?
So we have a parent and two children.
We're gonna have .child,
float: left,
>> Brian Holt: And
we're gonna have parent.
Let's just collapse that one.
background-color: red.
>> Brian Holt: And here we're gonna
have height: 20px, width: 20px.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
and let's just do this,
background-color: green.
>> Brian Holt: And we'll have,
>> Brian Holt: padding: 30px, yeah,
that will ruin it.
That will actually fix it.
Okay, so,
>> Brian Holt: Let me save this and
I'll put it in so people can see it.
>> Brian Holt: Just add new slide here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
slide 71 will have that on there now.
[COUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
>> Brian Holt: So I have these two things,
I now no longer have a background of red,
right?
Cuz you would suspect the parent
to have a background red.
>> Speaker 2: Maybe before
you get into too much more,
he just kinda wants to know
why do we need to clearfix l?
What's the history on it?
>> Brian Holt: So clearfix, I have
now demonstrated the effect that I'm
trying to demonstrate,
is that you would expect this
parent to have a background
red between these two squares.
Let's just make these like 200,
so it's more, right?
You would expect this background right
here to be red, but because of the way
floats work and parent divs heights
are determined, with floats, it doesn't
know what to do about the background and
so it just collapses everything.
So the parent,
if I put a border on the parents,
it'll be a little line at the top,
border: 1px solid blue, right?
So, now notice we have this
blue line up here, right?
Totally weird because we would
expect it to just why don't
you just cover everything that's
the children cover, right?
And it's the way
the floats are determined.
So there's a couple ways
to kind of fix this.
And the fastest way is you can
just say that on this parent is
overflow: hidden, overflow: hidden.
Low and behold, it fixes itself and
now it has a background.
It's weird and it has to do with
the way that overflow's calculated.
I'm not even really sure like
the mechanics behind of why that works.
Just that it works.
[COUGH] So let's talk about clearfix.
That's a hack what I just showed you,
but if I throw on here clearfix.
So I just copied some CSS from
Nicolas Gallagher's website.
We're just gonna throw it on
here in the bottom, right there.
Don't worry about what it actually is.
I'm not sure why this works either.
But now if I throw this class on here,
cf, it also will fix it.
It's a little bit more clear what's
going on here, why that exists.
You put overflow hidden on there,
people don't know that you're
trying to clear your flow, right?
In this particular case,
you see cf on there.
It's like, okay.
He's doing a clearfix here.
He's trying to get this
float width stuff to work.
Does that make sense?
Cool.
>> Brian Holt: It's
gonna happen to you and
you're gonna be super
frustrated when it happens.
So just kinda refer back to this.